Update matter documentation (#26143)
home-assistant/home-assistant.github.io: source/_integrations/matter.md

Platform support in Home Assistant is currently limited to switches, lights and (binary) sensors. The light platform is limited to on/off and brightness control only, support for Color and Color temperature control will be added soon.

### Known issues
- Support for bridges (e.g. Hue bridge) is NOT working yet. Please do not try to commission a bridge as it will break the integration.
- Door/window sensors show up reversed (closed instead of open), this will be fixed soon.

## Adding Matter devices to Home Assistant

Adding a new device to Home Assistant is called "commissioning" in Matter technical terms. There are multiple ways to commission new Matter devices to your Home Assistant "controller":

1) Commission a device using the Home Assistant Companion apps (iOS/Android).
2) Commission a device to Apple Home and share it to Home Assistant.
3) Commission a device to Google Home and share it to Home Assistant.

These are the commission methods we currently support and test. There are other ways too, such as commission from other controllers (SmartThings, Alexa) which will probably work too but these are untested.

> 
> Technically you can also commission devices using your Home Assistant server directly, bypassing the need for the Companion app. This however has a dependency on Bluetooth which is both not practical and not compatible with the builtin Bluetooth integration, hence we only use this commissioning method in developer instances of Home Assistant.

Reviewer: No need to mention this here. Will only raise more questions.

```suggestion
```

> This integration allows you to communicate with and control Matter devices on your local WiFi or Thread network.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Matter integration allows you to communicate with and control Matter devices on your local WiFi or Thread network.
```

> Matter is [the new standard for home automation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matter_(standard)) which has just been released and (in the process of) being adopted by the tech industry. Its is a local protocol, controlling your devices is done without the need of any cloud. You can purchase a Matter compatible device, join it to Home Assistant (only) and you will have no dependency on a Vendor specific cloud or whatsoever.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Matter is [the new standard for home automation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matter_(standard)) which has just been released. It is in the process of being adopted by the tech industry. Matter is a local protocol, device control is done without the need of any cloud. You can join a Matter compatible device to Home Assistant without having to connect to a vendor specific cloud.
```

Matter devices are available using either WiFi based communication or [Thread](/integrations/thread/). Bluetooth is used for commissioning (adopting) of new devices. Home Assistant supports both transports for Matter.

> Home Assistant only supports controlling Matter devices, it is not a bridge itself to turn devices within Home Assistant into Matter compatible devices.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Home Assistant only supports control of Matter devices. Home Assistant is not a bridge itself and it cannot turn devices within Home Assistant into Matter compatible devices.
```

At this time there are only a few devices available that are compatible with the standard and some of them require you to join a beta/developer program. It is to be expected that more devices will hit the market during the 2nd quarter of 2023 and beyond.

<p class='note'>
Both the Matter standard itself and its implementation within Home Assistant are in a very early stage where only the basics are working and/or breaking changes can still happen. Using it in production is not recommended yet until it matures a bit more.
</p>

> One of the great features of Matter is the so called "Multi Fabric" feature, which means that you can join the same device to multiple controllers. For example add it to Google Home, Apple Home and Home Assistant at the same time.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
One of the great features of Matter is the so called _Multi Fabric_ feature: you can join the same device to multiple controllers. For example: add it to Google Home, Apple Home, and Home Assistant at the same time.
```

> Matter being a universal standard has some consessions. It is therefore recommended to use official integrations for Home Assistant (with a local API) over using the Matter protocol to communicate with a device. A good example is Philips Hue where the communication over Matter will only provide the basic controls over lights, the official integration will bring all Hue unique features like (dynamic) scenes, entertainment mode etc.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
For devices where Home Assistant provides an native integration (with local API), Matter may not be the best option. Matter, being a universal standard, might not have the nitty-gritty features that come with a product specific protocol. A good example is Philips Hue:  the communication over Matter only provides the basic controls over lights, the official integration brings all Hue unique features like (dynamic) scenes, entertainment mode, etc.
```

<p class='note'>
The Matter protocol relies on (local) IPv6 and mDNS (multicast traffic) which should be able to travel freely in your network. Matter devices (and any Thread Border routers) must be on the same LAN/VLAN as Home Assistant. Implementations like mDNS reflectors usually do more harm than good.
</p>

{% include integrations/config_flow.md %}

If you run Home Assistant Container, Home Assistant Core, or you don’t want to use the built-in Matter Server add-on, please see the [advanced installation instructions](#advanced-installation-instructions).

## Current state of the integration

> While the support for Matter is evolving we will regularly update the Matter integration with new features or device support. Because it might be hard to track what's supported and what not we list the current state here and try to update this information as often as possible. 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
While the support for Matter is evolving, we will regularly update the Matter integration with new features or device support. Because it might be hard to track what's supported and what not, we list the current state here and try to update this information as often as possible. 
```

> Platform support in Home Assistant is currently limited to switches, lights and (binary) sensors. The light platform is limited to on/off and brightness control only, support for Color and Color temperature control will be added soon.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Platform support in Home Assistant is currently limited to switches, lights, and (binary) sensors. The light platform is limited to _on/off_ and _brightness_ control only, support for _color_ and _color temperature_ control will be added soon.
```

10) You are now given a Setup code, copy this to the clipboard.
11) Follow the [Commission a device using the iOS Companion app](Commission a device using the iOS Companion app) directions above to commission the device to Home Assistant where you paste the code you just received from Apple Home.

[LINK TO VIDEO GOES HERE]

### Commission a device from Google Home

This method will allow you to commission the device using Google Home and from there share it to Home Assistant. The result is that the device can be controlled from both Google Home and Home Assistant at the same time.

<p class='note'>
The steps below describe the process of manually adding the device to Google Home, but in most cases, Android will already discover the presence of a commissionable Matter device and pop up a screen to start the commission process.

[SCREENSHOT OF ANDROID THAT FOUND A MATTER DEVICE]
</p>

Jump to step 10 if you already commissioned the device to Google Home.

1) Open the Home app on your Android device.

> 2) Go to settings, press `Add device`, Choose `New device`.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
2) Go to settings, press `Add device`, choose `New device`.
```

This integration allows you to communicate with and control Matter devices on your local WiFi or Thread network.

Matter is [the new standard for home automation](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Matter_(standard)) which has just been released and (in the process of) being adopted by the tech industry.

> Matter devices are available using either WiFi based communication or [Thread](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Thread_(network_protocol)) and Bluetooth is used for commissioning (adopting) of new devices. Home Assistant supports both transports for Matter.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matter devices are available using either WiFi based communication or [Thread](/integrations/thread/). Bluetooth is used for commissioning (adopting) of new devices. Home Assistant supports both transports for Matter.
```

At this time there are only a few devices available that are compatible with the standard and some of them require you to join a beta/developer program.

> It is to be expected that more devices will hit the market during the 2nd quarter of 2023 and beyond.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
At this time there are only a few devices available that are compatible with the standard and some of them require you to join a beta/developer program. It is to be expected that more devices will hit the market during the 2nd quarter of 2023 and beyond.
```

> Both the Matter standard itself and its implementation within Home Assistant are in a very early stage where only the basics are working and/or breaking changes can still happen. Using it in production is not really recommended yet until it matures a bit more.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Both the Matter standard itself and its implementation within Home Assistant are in a very early stage where only the basics are working and/or breaking changes can still happen. Using it in production is not recommended yet until it matures a bit more.
```

> Matter being a universal standard has some consessions. It is therefore recommended that if an official integration exists (with a local API) within Home Assistant for a specific device, that is recommended over using the Matter protocol to communicate with a device. A good example is Philips Hue where the communication over Matter will only provide the basic controls over lights, the official integration will bring all Hue unique features like (dynamic) scenes, entertainment mode etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Matter being a universal standard has some consessions. It is therefore recommended to use official integration for Home Assistant (with a local API) over using the Matter protocol to communicate with a device. A good example is Philips Hue where the communication over Matter will only provide the basic controls over lights, the official integration will bring all Hue unique features like (dynamic) scenes, entertainment mode etc.
```

One of the great features of Matter is the so called "Multi Fabric" feature, which means that you can join the same device to multiple controllers. For example add it to Google Home, Apple Home and Home Assistant at the same time.

> In essence, Matter is a local protocol, meaning controlling your devices is done without the need of any cloud. In theory you can purchase a Matter compatible device, join it to Home Assistant (only) and you will have no dependency on an Vender specific cloud or whatsoever.

Reviewer: Remove all the filler words and words that don't add to the message you're trying to say. Remove "In essence", "In theory", "Meaning"

Also let's move this paragraph to the introduction.

> Home Assistant only supports controlling Matter devices, it is not a bridge itself to turn devices within Home Assistant into Matter compatible devices.

Reviewer: This should go higher too. Question 1.

> The Matter protocol relies on (local) IPv6 and mDNS (multicast traffic) which should be able to travel freely in your network. Matter devices (and any Thread Border routers) must be on the same LAN/VLAN as your controller (=Home Assistant). Implementations like mDNS reflectors usually do more harm than good. Also we've seen cases (e.g. on Unifi hardware) where IPv6 derrived from the Internet Provider caused issues with the discovery of Matter devices. Keep these notes in mind when you experience issues trying to commission or control Matter devices. Protocols like Matter are designed for regular residential network setups and do not play nice with enterprise solutions like VLAN's, Multicast filtering and even IGMP Snooping. Try to keep your network as simple and flat as possible when you want to start 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Matter protocol relies on (local) IPv6 and mDNS (multicast traffic) which should be able to travel freely in your network. Matter devices (and any Thread Border routers) must be on the same LAN/VLAN as Home Assistant. Implementations like mDNS reflectors usually do more harm than good.

We've seen cases (e.g. on Unifi hardware) where IPv6 derived from the Internet Provider cause issues with the discovery of Matter devices. Keep these notes in mind when you experience issues trying to commission or control Matter devices. Protocols like Matter are designed for regular residential network setups and do not play nice with enterprise solutions like VLAN's, Multicast filtering and IGMP Snooping. Try to keep your network as simple and flat as possible to avoid issues.
```

Reviewer: That second paragraph should be moved to the bottom to a troubleshooting section.
